>> Richard Feldman: So once again,
we now have a new section in
here that we didn't have before.
We still have naming parts tokenized
from the previous section.
And now we additionally have type check,
which is what we're gonna also have these
exact five for the next three exercises.
So as with all the others,
it's just like run node index.js.
So we just gotta see
the inter there first.
So we'll go ahead and do that.
And as with all the others,
we have a bunch failing tests and
we're gonna resolve them by just finding
this little finger pointing thing and
figuring out what we should do.
So, once again if you're curious about
all this stuff, you can learn about it.
A lot of the things in the type checker,
this is a lot longer
than the other things.
This is already 500 and
by the end of the course,
it's doubled in size to a thousand.
There's already some stuff in here
that we haven't talked about.
So if you see unify, for example, we're
gonna talk about that in the next section.
So don't feel bad at you need to
understand that or you missed something.
You didn't miss it, it's just like for
the exercises I wanted to have,
doing the actual type checking thing and
that requires having things that
we haven't learned about yet.
But for our purposes,
we're mostly concerned with jus fixing
these small number of finger arrow things.
So in this case we're using the same
terminology as we were in naming and
this is what we're gonna be
consistent with throughout here,
which is just visiting a note.
So when it was naming, we were visiting
nodes in order to build up scope and
detect whether we use things
after they were declared and
if we had duplicate declarations.
But for type checking,
we're visiting nodes, because basically
we want to populate the type database.
So a really consistent thing that we're
gonna be doing in this stage is basically
just like working with type
IDs in that type database.
So the first thing we do here is be like,
okay find the type ID of the parse
tree node that is stored in node.init.
So const declaration basically has
these three fields, so you have type.
That's just the node type, so
all the nodes have a field called type.
The ID is basically corresponding
to an actual like database ID.
So it has a field called type ID, won't
get into why this is an object later, but
basically that is the field
that if you wanna get
the actual ID that
corresponds to the database.
That's like zero or one or two or
whatever that is, that's how you get that.
And then finally, we have init,
which is basically what is
this constant initialized to?
And that is another parse tree node.
So this one's a parse tree node,
this one is not.
This one's just a database ID.
And then this thing is
just saying I am a cost.
So as the example if we had const x
equals five, the parse tree node for
the five part,
that's gonna be over here init field.
And then there's gonna be some type
id that was associated in a previous
step that we're not gonna
work on in this exercise.
Something went through and
assigned all of these ids to these.
Okay, that's the first thing we gotta do
is we gotta actually go find the type id
and once we have it,
then what we wanna do is we want to store
that in our sort of type level scope.
So this right here,
the scope concept works exactly the same
way as we did in the naming section.
The only difference is that now we're
actually storing something with
the scope entry.
So I'm not just saying yes, this is in
scope, I'm saying, I'm in scope, and
actually this is my type id.
So now, you can not only go look up and
ask the question,
is this thing in scope or not?
It was declared, but
also you can say much more importantly,
what is the type id associated with that?
So that was how when we were
talking through it in the slides,
we were able to do things like
associate like a with 0 immediately,
without having to do the symlinking stuff.
We can just be like, I see it's in scope.
Got it, that's what its type id is.
So this is where we are actually setting
that in the declaration, we're like, okay,
cool, we need to modify the scope to say
that is equal to the type id that we found
in the previous thing.
And finally, we have basically just like
needing to record the type id that we
just added the scope inside
the notes node.id.type id.
And that's also gonna be a freebie,
apparently.
[LAUGH] But yeah, basically, this is the
part where we're like, okay, if we want to
write this down for later, it's not enough
for us to say, we added we looked it up.
We added it to scope, we also need to add
it to the node so that, if we were making
a language server, we could do
the hover to find out the id thing.
Or much more importantly, for our
purposes, we actually will directly need
that later on when we get to
web assembly code generation.
>> Richard Feldman: So
let's go through our solutions here.
So we had this visit cost
declaration function and
currently we need to do
a couple things here.
So one is first find the type id of
the parse tree node stored in node.init.
So, it's basically this thing right here,
there's the type id that we need.
So [COUGH] the one other thing
that we need to do is in order
to actually get the correct node,
we do wanna visit the node of
node.init in order to get that back.
So essentially, putting those two
things together, we do const init type,
or you can name this whatever you want.
But the relevant part is that we do
wanna visit this node and go process it.
And node.init is the one that we
want here to go with its type id.
Then next thing we wanna do is
assign that type to the identifier.
So for example, for
like const x equals five,
we wanna write down in this node
what the actual identifier was.
So that's where
the node.id.typeid comes in.
And so we'll just put that right there
next to this now that we've looked it up.
And after that, next thing we wanna do is
just add the actual variable to scope.
So unlike the previous section when
we were just adding it to a set and
there was no associated value,
now there is a value that we care about,
which is that we wanna actually
write down the type ID.
So after doing this, everyone who
subsequently looks up in the scope,
what is this particular constant's name?
So a or b or x or whatever,
they'll find out immediately that this is
the type of that thing on
the other side of the equal sign.
I do wanna note that in some of
the solutions, I have some bits and
pieces included about, type annotations.
We're not talking about type annotations
now, but one of the things about type
annotations is that, and
part of the reason we're not really
doing them in this course is that they
just kind of pop up all over the place.
There's just a whole bunch of ways,
there's annotation here, we gotta do this,
and annotation here, we gotta do that.
And so you will see a little sprinklings
of these things throughout the solutions
where it's sort of like, okay, FYI,
if we were doing annotation stuff,
here is one of the several places where
you would need to take that into account.
But for our purposes,
we're gonna ignore them,
and we're gonna talk about them a little
bit in a couple of sections from now.
Okay, and then finally,
we return the actual type,
because that's what visit
const declaration does.
And let's see how we're looking,
fantastic, all the tests pass.